[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's talk about the
difference between function declarations,
and what we're gonna call
function expressions.
Function expressions are a lot more common
than you may realize from that name.
You may not have a good name for them,
but they happen all over our code.
Let's look at line one, and
let's look at this function bar here.
Is this a declaration?
And the answer to that question is,
no it's not.
And here's your what you
need to know definition.
We could break it down grammatically, but
I'm just gonna give you the what
you need to know definition.
The way you know if something
is a function declaration,
or if it's not a function declaration
it has to be a function expression.
The way you know
the difference is whether or
not the function keyword it the very
first word in the statement.
Okay?
The very first thing in the statement.
I do not mean the first thing on the line,
I mean the first thing in the statement.
So statements can break over multi lines,
you can have multiple statements
on a line, what we're looking for
is that the function word is
the first word in the statement.
When we go back to our previous slide,
slide 15, line three we see a function bar
where the function key word is
the first thing on the line.
So it declares that function
in its current existing scope.
So, where did bar get
found in that example?
When we did function bar,
where was that bar identifier registered.
>> Speaker 2: Global.
>> Kyle Simpson: In the global scope.
Here's the difference with
function expressions.
We look on slide 16,
we see a function bar here.
Is the function keyword
the first word in the statement?
The first thing in the statement?
No, so therefore it must be an expression.
Regardless of how it's gonna be used,
it's an expression.
So in expressions we often see
expressions as anonymous functions.
Many of you have probably
used them all over the place,
if you write jQuery code or
any of those other ones.
It's very idiomatic to just do
function open, close, parentheses.
And we put those in our set time outs,
and our click handlers, and
all over the place.
It's called an anonymous
function expression.
I'll explain to you in just a moment why
name function expressions are better,
but this is a name function expression.
Why?
Because on line one we see a name in
the identifier position, we see function
bar, as opposed to just function open,
close, parentheses.
Everybody see that?
Right there on line one.
That bar name, however,
because it's a function expression,
that bar name does not get
declared in the outer scope.
Whereas in the previous slide, when it was
a function declaration, the name was put
into the enclosing scope, with function
expressions that are named expressions,
the name of the function expression
is enclosed within its own scope.
So the name bar here exists from lines
one through nine inside of itself.
We can reference bar here and
that will work just fine.
But when we try to reference bar on line
12 outside of the function, clearly,
it does not exist and
we get a reference there.
It's the difference between
a function declaration and
a function expression.
>> Kyle Simpson: Questions?
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, why do
we care about this named
versus unnamed thing?
So, when you are in the habit of using,
and many of us do this and I do it,
I fall back to this all the time.
When you use anonymous function
expressions in your code,
three major things occur that I
consider to be three major negatives
to using an anonymous function expression.
What I would say is function
expressions themselves, hugely useful.
Use them all over your code.
In fact, some people do them entirely,
they don't do any declarations.
Function expressions are great.
What's bad is an anonymous
function expression
as compared to a named
function expression.
Okay.
And here's why, the three negative to
an anonymous function expressions.
The first one is that when you have
an anonymous function, if this bar did not
exist we have no way inside of
the function to refer to ourself.
Say if you wanted to create a recursion or
if it was a click handler and you wanted
to unbind the click handler or whatever.
We have no way to refer to ourself
from within inside of the function
if we didn't give it a name, but by virtue
of putting that bar name there on line one
we now have the ability to
reference that function from
inside of itself if we need
to do recursion or whatever.
There is a whole bunch of people that
think incorrectly that the this key word
is a reference to yourself and it's not.
So you have no way of doing a self
reference unless you give it a name.
And the nice thing about
this name is that it's safe.
When we put bar there it is only gonna
exist within the function expression.
It's not gonna exist outside so
it didn't pollute the outer scope,
just gave us a nice self-referential name,
lexically speaking.
That's the first thing.
The second thing, how many of you have
ever had an error in production code?
Maybe none of you.
Maybe you all write perfect code.
I do lots of production code errors.
In fact, most of the time I sort of
fumble my way to accidentally getting
correctly working code.
So I have lots of function errors,
which means I do lots of debugging.
And I do lots of debugging
against minified code.
Anybody ever seen a stack trace
with anonymous function repeated
like 15, 20 times?
Happens all the time to me.
The problem with anonymous functions is
that they don't play well in debugging
because it just says anonymous function.
And especially when it's modified code,
it's just anonymous function, line one,
character 32,341.
How helpful is that?
Not very.
But if you give it a name, that name
gets used in the debug stack traces.
So that's the second benefit of always
using named function expressions
as opposed to anonymous
function expressions.
The third and final reason, slightly
weaker, is that it self-documents code.
When using an anonymous function
expression, you are required to look
at the outer context to understand
what that function is doing.
But if you give it a nice descriptive
name like handler, it's immediate
looking at that function what it's doing,
it's handling some event, or whatever.
So giving it a name makes the code
a little bit more understandable.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: We have a question in
the chat for what a best practice is when
a function is assigned to an object.
>> Kyle Simpson: You mean- So the function
being, I'm assuming the function being
assignment is the property of an object.
>> Speaker 2: Right Yes.
>> Kyle Simpson: So I would say in that
case you're definitely making a function
expression, cuz it's not a declaration,
it's getting assigned, so that expression
of value of function has value.
When you have function expressions
those function expressions
should always have a name.
So I would say you always want
name function expressions.
I can't think of a single example in any
of JavaScript where an anonymous function
expression is more preferable to
a name function expression, except for
the case where you're just too lazy and
can't come up with a good name.
Which happens.
I mean, I'm guilty of that, too.
I write that.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 3: Perhaps, I missed this.
But, In the current case wouldn't foo,
ignoring line two for
a second, would foo refer to
the current function within
this function if it were anonymous?
>> Kyle Simpson: So
that's the problem with those, when you
have a function assigned as an expression.
You might be able to assume
that variable was present, but
what happens if later on
down in the code on line 13,
the global variable foo got
rewritten to a different value.
Now all of a sudden you don't have that
variable to reference yourself with,
and you don't know that you
don't have the variable.
So you can't rely on something
out in your outer lexical scope.
You can only rely on something
that binds to your own scope.
And, by virtue of what you just said, the
fact that we do some shadowing here also
kills that idea.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, great questions.
Any questions so far about function
expressions versus declarations?
Any more that I'm missing?
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, moving on.
We said before that the function
was the only example of,
I mean the function was our
only atomic unit of scope.
That's actually a little bit of a fib.
Very little known fact, I'd say
probably 99.9% of JavaScript developers
are not aware that as of ES3,
that is way back to IE5 and 6 days,
as of ES3, when we got the tricatch
added to the language,
it was specified way back then that
the catch clause was block scoped.
Meaning that the variable that you declare
inside of your catch clause exists only
inside of the catch clause, and
not outside of the catch clause.
So here we can reference the err
inside of our catch, but
when we try to reference that
name outside, it's not available.
Little bit of a caveat.
iE6 screwed this up.
IE6 did allow you to access the variable
outside, but as of IE7 and above and
all other browsers it obeys the spec, and
it blocks scopes into the catch clause.
Okay?
So, we have this name that's existing
inside of this catch clause,
we have an example of block scope, is that
anything more than just academic trivia?
Put them into a bookmark there cuz we're
gonna come back to this a little bit
later, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: As another side note on
this, by the way, I just thought of
this [COUGH] as another side note.
Many of you probably use lint tools like
JSLint and things like that, and I have
seen many times where if you have the rule
turned on that says you wanna be warned
about duplicate variable definitions,
and you have a bunch of try catches.
If you do try catch err, try catch err and
you repeat those all in the same scope,
your linters will all complain at you
saying that you're re-declaring that
err over and over again,
when in fact you're clearly not.
Because it's block scoped, so
it's not a multiple declaration.
For some reason unbeknownst to me,
I cannot understand, but
for a decade or more we've had linters
that are not intelligent enough to
understand the nuance of block
scoped catch variables and
they all complain about it so
your only two solutions are, and
I used to do this, err1,
err2, you know which sucks.
Or, simply turn off that linting roll
which is what I now do, because it's
annoying that it complains to you about
stuff that's not actually a problem.